17 judges of the un's top legal body
took part in the deliberations on South
Africa's case against Israel brought
under the genocide
convention their ruling read out by the
Court's president concluded that South
Africa's claims were plausible that the
situation in Gaza was very grave and
Urgent and that Israel by the
dehumanizing language of its leaders had
shown intent she directly quoted
Israel's president and its defense
minister Minister Galant stated speaking
to Israeli troops on the Gaza border I
quote I have released all restraints you
saw what we are fighting against we are
fighting Human animals this is the Isis
of Gaza the Court's president then read
out the judge's decisions Israel must in
accordance with its obligations under
the genocide convention in relation to
Palestinians in Gaza take all measures
within its power to prevent the
commission of all acts within the scope
of Article 2 of the convention a broad
ruling which included an order that
Israel properly deal with the D
humanitarian situation but there was no
specific call for an immediate
ceasefire outside the Court South
Africa's foreign minister gave her
reaction to reporters in exercising uh
the uh order there would have to be a
ceasefire without it the order uh
doesn't actually work Madam minister
they didn't specifically call for a ceas
are you disappointed that they didn't
specify that I'm I no way that I'm going
to say I'm disappointed I hoped for it
but the fact of delivering humanitarian
Aid the fact of taking measures that
reduce the levels of harm against
persons who have no role in what Israel
uh is combating for me requires a
ceasefire this is just an interim ruling
this case is expected to go on for a
number of years but there is another
important landmark in just one month's
time Israel has been ordered to produce
a report for the judges explaining how
it's complying with this ruling James
Bay Al jazer the
hag make sure to subscribe to our
channel to get the latest news from Al
jazer